64tass is the assembler which puts all your files into a ROM. It is REQUIRED for the build files to function.

BSNES Max is an SNES emulator with solid debugging tools, which will let you go a bit deeper into hacking the game.

The Compression/Decompression folder has a compressor and decompressor program, which are necessary to handle a number of files.
There is also a batch compression .bat file which compresses all the most common files. Useful for translation patches!

FE5 Map Editor is a standalone program that allows you to edit FE5 maps.
The current build files do not yet allow map editing.
Therefore, if you plan to edit maps, you will need to edit your base fe5.sfc ROM with this program, then replace it with the result before building.

FLIPS allows you to generate a patch file to share your project.
BPS format is the default.
IPS format does not perform a ROM check. Only use this if you want your players to be able to patch onto an edited Thracia ROM.

IpsAndSum allows you to fix your rom's checksum before publishing your patch.
Because this program doesn't fix the checksum of expanded roms, you'll want to load your completed ROM into it, run it, then copy the "NEW CheckSum" part into tables/Header.asm (CartridgeChecksum), then build again with the new checksum.

Lunar Address allows you to easily convert ROM addresses to memory addresses and vice-versa.
Use the ExLoRom setting, and do not include a header.

Lunar Expand is required once, to expand your base ROM before putting it in its folder.
See the text file in base_rom for more details.

SnesGFX allows you to turn your image files into insertable graphics and palettes.

SuperFamiconv is used by a few conversion tools.

The Text Ripper is a simple ripping tool which dumps Japanese text from the rom address you give it.

The Tileset Editor allows you to edit chapter tilesets, and especially the world map. Useful for both mods and translations!

Usenti is a simple and lightweight image editor. 

YY-CHR is a tool that lets you visualize and edit SNES graphic files. Use for all the 2bpp and 4bpp files.

c2a.py and six.py are used by a few other conversion tools.